Part I
Chapter 1. Covers expressions, the most basic type of Python instruction, and how to
use the Python interactive shell software to experiment with code.
Chapter 2. Explains how to make programs decide which instructions to execute so
your code can intelligently respond to different conditions.
Chapter 3. Instructs you on how to define your own functions so that you can organize
your code into more manageable chunks.
Chapter 4. Introduces the list data type and explains how to organize data.
Chapter 5. Introduces the dictionary data type and shows you more powerful ways to
organize data.
Chapter 6. Covers working with text data (called strings in Python).
Part II
Chapter 7. Covers how Python can manipulate strings and search for text patterns with
regular expressions.
Chapter 8. Explains how your programs can read the contents of text files and save
information to files on your hard drive.
Chapter 9. Shows how Python can copy, move, rename, and delete large numbers of
files much faster than a human user can. It also explains compressing and
decompressing files.
Chapter 10. Shows how to use Python’s various bug-finding and bug-fixing tools.
Chapter 11. Shows how to write programs that can automatically download web pages
and parse them for information. This is called web scraping.
Chapter 12. Covers programmatically manipulating Excel spreadsheets so that you
don’t have to read them. This is helpful when the number of documents you have to
analyze is in the hundreds or thousands.
Chapter 13. Covers programmatically reading Word and PDF documents.
Chapter 14. Continues to explain how to programmatically manipulate documents
with CSV and JSON files.
Chapter 15. Explains how time and dates are handled by Python programs and how to
schedule your computer to perform tasks at certain times. This chapter also shows how
your Python programs can launch non-Python programs.
Chapter 16. Explains how to write programs that can send emails and text messages
on your behalf.
Chapter 17. Explains how to programmatically manipulate images such as JPEG or
PNG files.
Chapter 18. Explains how to programmatically control the mouse and keyboard to
automate clicks and keypresses.